We have entered a new paradigm, the digital paradigm; an era where analogue, mechanical and electronic technologies are being replaced by digital technologies.

And this replacement is happening fast, not just for me, but I assume for most people?

But before I got into this, please allow me to introduce myself a bit more and provide some context; I am a so called digital immigrant, born before the widespread adoption of digital technology and someone how had to learn how to cope with the rise of digital devices and technologies. This is unlike the digital natives, who started to interact with digital from birth.

My first personal computer was in 1982, it was the Atari 800, a 8-bit computer that wasn't much used for coding but playing games such as Blue Max and International Karate.

My interest for the technological side of computers was triggered after watching Star Trek and during my search for suitable technologies that could support me with the challenging ideas I've had over the years.

Currently I am engaged with emerging technologies in the fields of Computer Vision and Deep Learning, supporting the broadcast, media and research industry to become more advanced and efficient.

Despite the fact that I am daily engaged with various emerging technologies, it is becoming increasingly difficult to comprehend how this is going to change and support our lives in the future. Both from a personal as from a societal perspective.

With the exponential growth of computers and the subsequent explosion of data, it would be fair to say that we are engaged into the digital revolution and entering the Information Age; an age where we will have access to data like running water from the tap.

    Computers will be microscopic and nearly infinite in supply in the next 25 years"

According to Peter Diamandis, the co-founder of Singularity University, this growth will only continue; computers will be microscopic and nearly infinite in supply in the next 25 years.

This video illustrates the powerful implications of several emerging technologies such as 3D Printing, Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, moving into the Internet of Things, Infinite Computing and Synthetic Biology.

Although some of these technologies may feel lightyears ahead of us, some of them are already becoming embedded into our lives such as Cloud Computing, 3D Printing, and now also with the up and coming Cognitive Supercomputer Watson.

    A ‘new dimension’ in which Machine Augmented Cognition is made possible thanks to a exocortex based Internet"

According to technology strategist and founder of Envisioning, Michell Zappa, within the next 30 years we would have moved into a ‘new dimension’ in which Machine Augmented Cognition is made possible thanks to a exocortex based Internet (i.e. cyborgs). Where energy is created from space-based solar power, where we can travel to space through space elevators and using immersive virtual reality interfaces to interact with the new world.

Check out this below visualisation of emerging technologies for the next 15 years. Spanning across the various areas and industries such as energy, health, agriculture, materials, nanotechnology, neurotechnology, digital and communication technologies (click the enlarge)

It will take time for us as individuals and as a society at large to understand how we’re going to adopt these advancements into our lives.

For me it is important that we embrace those advancements that provide us with a more sustainable, conscious, prosperous and inclusive society.