I believe it is fair to say that globally we are faced with the greatest economical, ecological and social challenge of our lifetime. As a consequence, paradigmatic shifts seem inevitable and taking drastic measures have become paramount.

Just to be clear, I am not an economist. I am merely an observer of our economy with an environmental scientific background and a great passion for change and innovation supported through emerging and disruptive technologies, such as cognitive computing.

The intention that I have with this post is to share my thoughts on the state of the economy and what I believe that could be done to make it more inclusive, sustainable and thriving.

Economy and Ecology

When we talk about economy and ecology it sometimes feels like we are talking about two complete separate matters, despite of the fact they share a common etymological root; eco or oikos in Greek means "house", or with the more general sense "environment", "nature", or "natural habitat".

Nomy can be traced back to the Greek word nemein, "to manage". So the meaning of economy could be described as "to manage the house" or "household management", oikonomia.

Logy is derived from the Greek -logia which means "study of". Ecology could therefore be described as the study of the environment; a branch of science concerned with the interrelationship of organisms and their environment.

So in short, economy talks about "use" whereas ecology speaks of "relationships".

    Humanity is now using 1.5 Earth's world of resources"

One could argue that the reason why our economy is in such turmoil is because we have lost the ability to harbour our relationship with our natural habitat. We have become increasingly detached from the reality of our environment. As it stands today, the management of our global household is totally out of control and not sustainable.

This becomes clear when we look at the data from the Global Footprint Network, which informs us that humanity is now using 1.5 Earth's world of resources.

Humanity is now using nature’s services 50 percent faster than what Earth can renew, reveals the 2010 edition of the Living Planet Report – the leading survey of the planet’s health.

    For the economy itself will die if our ecosystems collapse" - Leonardo DiCaprio at the UN Climate Summit 

Clearly it is an understatement when I say this is bad management. Our use of the earth's resources needs to change and it needs to change quickly. Especially when we have the means, the technological innovation and the scientific imagination to facilitate this change.
Ecological Economics & Creating Shared Value

We require a new economic system that will address the interdependence and coevolution of human economies and natural ecosystems over time and space, or in other words we require to think more alongside ecological economics and creating shared value.

We need to bring our economy and ecology closer together as one, as thus far they point to perspectives that do not seem to connect. We are required to implement a system that will manage our environment more responsibly and be rewarded when we create a positive impact on our balance sheet from an economic, social and ecological perspective.