t is my intention to write a series of posts around "The Metaphor of Things" and to set the scene I am starting with The Meaning of a Metaphor.

Metaphors could be seen as the basic building blocks of how we think and communicate. We make sense of the world by seeing how one part of it relates to and is reflected in another.

    The world is my playground"

Metaphors structure not only how we see the world, but also how we are able to see it, and thus how we are able to remake it. An example would be "The world is my playground" which has its emphasise on the word is opposed to as or like (a simile).

The world is a playground for me, one that should be enjoyed and explored through continuous discovery and responsible play, like an infinite game as described by James P. Carse in his book Finite and Infinite Games.
Metaphor in Philosophy

Philosophy, the study of general and fundamental problems, is one key field that provides me various insights of life. It enables me to think about life from a fundamental perspective and provides me with meaning, principles and a life that is consequential.

When looking at the Greek etymological meaning of metaphorá we end up "transfer" or "to carry over"; meta means “after” or “beyond” and phorus means “bearer” or “carrier” — so one could argue that we are talking about a form of transcending, or even transformation.
The Metaphor in Metaphysics

Continental philosophers have seriously addressed the need to rethink how the world appears to us and how it manifests to us in the light of their metaphysics (explaining the fundamental nature of being and the world that encompasses it).

Metaphor has proven to be extremely important for this rethinking because it is the process of conceptual borrowing or reassignment which revises our perception of the world.

One could argue that we could alter our perception of life and facilitate transformation in our society through conscious metaphorical thinking.

And it is this subject, the subject of Transformation that I shall focus my attention to in the second part of The Metaphor of Things.