Green Hackfest kicks off in Utrecht on the Netherlands National Day of Sustainability (Dag van de Duurzaamheid) starting Friday, October 10th running through to Sunday October 12th.

A full weekend of massive green hacking where coders, developers, designers, entrepreneurs, hardware hackers, UX and UI specialists, scientists and others come together and brainstorm over a couple of days and build out their ideas in a short term innovation event.

At this hackathon it’s all about applied sustainability - which is the application of science and innovation to meet human needs while indefinitely preserving the life support systems of the planet. A more refined definition would be called Just Applied Sustainability: the application of science and innovation to ensure a better quality of life for all, now and into the future, in a just and equitable manner, whilst living within the limits of supporting ecosystems.

    Fly yourself to The Netherlands and let us take care of the rest... food and accommodation at UtrechtINC student building at the University of Utrecht! Bring your sleeping bag!

This event is driven by Europe's Climate Kic, one of the world's largest public-private innovation partnerships focused on climate change and consisting of dynamic companies along with the best academic institutions and the public sector - along with UtrechtINC, a business incubator with an accelerator program... the Green Hackfest 2014 will offer thousands of euro in prizes, three days of hacking, two nights of accomodation at the venue and the opportunity to show work to some of Europe's top players in the Green movement.

In this three day (two night) hackathon starting Friday afternoon and running through to Sunday evening (October 10-12, 2014), we are bringing together talented and bright developers to work on inspiring ideas, apps, games & smart solutions that have a direct impact on peoples awareness and/or their daily life and actions to help improve and sustain the living environment and nature.

    Contribute to a sustainable European environment

The Toolkit
By tapping into the many APIs and SDKs from Green technology companies, and more than 100 publicly available APIs, participants of all skill areas will team up to cultivate new ways of solving old problems--brainstorming over two days to build new friendships and networks, and most importantly, design new products and services.

Horizon 2020 Fund
In addition to creating great solutions with brilliant people, don’t miss this unique opportunity to network with key people from Climate-KIC who hold the purse strings to the billions of euro slated for Green funding from the Horizon 2020 programme. Horizon 2020 is the largest government fund for innovation the world has ever seen, with €80 billion available overall.

New Technology and Green
Web and mobile-based devices are becoming increasingly important in tooling humans to better tackle the issues of sustainability. To demonstrate the effectiveness of these technologies, Green Hackfest 2014 will bring together a wide range of bright, enthusiastic people with multiple talents. Together they will use these technologies to address current Green challenges and present the results back to those attending the event.