This sounds great of course "Everybody has the Power to Create", but what does this mean? The power to create what, and for what purpose should we create?

Before I go into this, you may also ask yourself, where does this quote come from?

It is taken from the RSA - The Power to Create which aims to offer a vision on how to empower people to be active participants in creating a world they want to live in.

For the ones that are unfamiliar with this organisation, the RSA stands for the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce. It is a 260-year old enlightenment organisation that is committed to finding innovative creative practical solutions to today’s social challenges, or as its strap line suggests; the 21st century enlightenment.

It was founded in a coffee shop in Covent Garden in 1754 and has a wealth of notable achievements and Fellows in its 250-year history, such as Charles Dickens, Benjamin Franklin, Karl Marx, Stephen Hawking, David Attenborough, Nelson Mandela and Tim Berners-Lee.

    21st century enlightenment: Enriching society through ideas and action. Our mission is to create the conditions for the enlightened thinking and collaborative action needed to address today's most pressing social challenges. 

Through its ideas, research and 27,000-strong Fellowship it seeks to harness the extraordinary amount of untapped creative potential in society - by empowering people to be active participants in creating a better world.

Everybody has "The Power to Create"

So back to "The Power to Create" and its vision to empower people to be active participants in creating a world they want to live in.

In the following extract, taken from an annual RSA Chief Executive's Lecture, Matthew Taylor offers a vision for the future - a world where every individual has the freedom and opportunity to develop their unique capabilities to the full.

    Let's think about the creative life in this way; everyone having the skills, confidence and opportunity to make their ideas a reality. Whether that idea is a performance, a product, a service, a business, even a social movement." 

 

A couple of extracts which I believe are worth highlighting...

    The 21st century presents us with huge challenges. How can we empower people to be active participants in creating a world we want to live in? 

    It's clear we urgently need this creative power. The world is facing big challenges. Problems like caring for an ageing population, tackling growing inequality, responding to climate change. It will take our combined creativity to find the breakthrough solutions we need. 

    We need to address the way our institutions behave, the way they treat people and the way our government is run. Leaders have to think differently about how they motivate and mobilise. Lasting social progress only comes about when governments work in partnership with communities, drawing on the creative capacities of all citizens, recognising them, not as bundles of need, but as huge untapped assets. 

    We need to make sure that assets like finance, intellectual property, networks are not just hoarded by the few, but made available as resources for a truly creative society. 

    All human beings can be the authors of their own lives. We are all born with the muscles for creativity, muscles that grow with the exercise of self-determination. This is what we call
    the Power to Create.

Fellowship

About a year and a half ago I decided to join their Fellowship as their purpose and commitment strongly resonated with my personal ambition to solve societal challenges and create a better world.

More recently I have become their connector for the Netherlands to act as a first port-of-call for new Fellows who want to find out more about the RSA and get involved, besides supporting local Fellows to organise events and collaborate on projects.

To date I have provided my support on a Hackathon for Health, a Hackathon for Green Urban Living, a collective for social innovation Urban-Goods and the organisation of the "Meet the Robots" series.

If you're interested in joining the Fellowship and/or discuss collaboration around your event or project, please do not hesitate to reach out.