

There is really no denying that our climate has changed and that our globe is warming up as a result. Many of us are very aware of this fact but somehow we feel powerless and seem to rely upon our political and industry leaders to counter this change.

    Solving this crisis is not a question of politics, it is a question of our own survival" - Leonardo DiCaprio at UN Climate Summit

Although it is understandable that we look at the most influential stakeholders to solve this climate crisis, I believe it to be crucial to alter our own perception and behaviour towards this global threat, but the question remains how?

We could of course run similar educational campaigns as we - the Netherlands - did back in the 90s and post a question directly towards the individuals in the hope they will change their attitude after seeing large and above-the-line campaigns on TV with straplines such as

    Waar begint een beter milieu? Een beter milieu begint bij jezelf" (Where does a better environment start? A better environment starts with yourself)

Nice initiative and great effort, but the problem simply is too complex for people to expect to change their behaviour just like that.

Twenty years later and although one can argue that we managed to increase our ecological awareness and altered our perception on sustainability in general, when we look at the current ecological state of the world, the statistics are undeniable and concerning; a continuous and nearly exponential rise in the emissions of carbon dioxide, which is at the root of the global warming and ecological crisis.

To counter climate change, I believe that we should use our collective mindset, ability and attention and look at innovative solutions that have the capability to be industry-changing.

As US President Obama mentioned in his UN Climate Change Summit speech

    We will put forward our next emission target reflecting our confidence in the ability of our technological entrepreneurs and scientific innovators to lead the way" - Barack Obama

Even film stars such Leonardo DiCaprio have entered the scene and used their celebrity status to create awareness and call for action towards this increasing ecological threat.

    We need to put a price tag on carbon emissions and eliminate government subsidies for all oil, coal and gas companies. We need to end the free ride that industrial polluters have been given in the name of free market economy. They do not deserve our tax dollars, the deserve our scrutiny. For the economy itself will die if our ecosystems collapse" - Leonardo DiCaprio

Below is a short compilation of both President Obama and Leonardo DiCaprio's powerful speeches at the Climate Summit held at the UN Headquarters in New York on the 23rd September 2014.

One way to generate ideas and develop innovative solutions is through social innovation events such as hackathons.

    Hackathons (also known as a hack day, hackfest or codefest) are events where people with multi disciplinary (technical, scientific and artistic) backgrounds come together and collaboratively code to solve specific challenges over a short space of time.

Earlier this month I was involved in hosting a hackathon for Urban Green Living - the Green Hackfest.

At this Green Hackfest it was all about applied sustainability, which is the application of science and innovation to meet human needs while indefinitely preserving the life support systems of the planet. The winner of the Best Overall Hack came up with a solution to reduce the amount of cars in our city based around an intelligent travel system alerting users via push notifications about greener methods of travel.

Another hack I would like to highlight was the winner of the Bikenomics challenge "Mindful Meerkats". This group came up with an idea to design a game that provides the majority of people with incentives to reflect upon their individual behaviour and engage in more sustainable lifestyles. An inspiring concept that encourages people to become more mindful through the reflection of one self and the direct feedback from its natural environment.

At the moment I am planning a hackathon "Code for Climate Change", which is dedicated to finding solutions to counter carbon emissions. Please feel free to contact me for more information or to discuss how to get involved in this event.
