10 RULES OF GOOD STUDYING

1. Use recall - activate what you've learned. make sure you can recall the ideas from within inside.Try recalling main ideas when you are walking to class vs.
"when your walking to class, your walking to class".

2. Use spaced repetition - distribute your recap/learning across multiple days. Train your brain muscle just as if it were a body muscle. If you try to grow your muscle in a single workout instead of many, you'll only exhaust y/s, break down. 

3. Alternate among different types of problems / techniques. Otherwise you
will just repeat mindlessly / mimick the previous solutions. Put yourself to
challenge, make your brain work, practice flexibility and deepen
understanding. Test yourself randomly on different quizzes. When you make
errors, first understand why you have made them and then rework your solution.
Mix up and work on different types of problems. This will teach you both 'how'
and 'when' to use a technique (flexibility?).

4. Test yourself. On everything. Flash cards are your friends. Deepen/maintain
your skills by recall and pactice. Get real
feedback about your knowledge instead of hyphotesizing about it and perhaps
mislead yourself.  


5. Stay in focused mode by using the pomodoro method. Give yourself a small,
fun reward at the end.

6. Take a break to allow your brain to work in different mode. It is common in
math/science to be unable to solve a problem / figure out a concept at first.
Remember statistics - 

7. Use analogies / saying out loud / writing to deepen your learning.
Handwriting will contribute to stronger neural structures than typing.
Explanatory questioning: how could I explain it so that a 10-year-old would
understand?

8. Avoid distractions. Switch off your phone / e-mail. Create a space
designated to learning where you usually go.

9. Get your sleep.

10. Chunk your problems. Practice your problem solving to make sure it all
comes to mind in a flash. After you've solved the problem, make sure you can
solve it cold - every step. Pretend its' a song and play it over and over in
your head until it becomes a smooth chunk you can pull up any time. 
